alerts/cluster-monitoring-operator/KubeletDown.md, before:

# KubeletDown

## Meaning

The `KubeletDown` alert is triggered when the monitoring system has not been
able to reach any of the Kubelets in a cluster for more than 15 minutes.

## Impact

This alert represents a critical threat to the cluster's stability. Excluding
the possibility of a network issue preventing the monitoring system from
scraping Kubelet metrics, multiple nodes in the cluster are likely unable to
respond to configuration changes for pods and other resources, and some
debugging tools are likely not to be functional, such as `oc exec` and
`oc logs`.

## Diagnosis

Review the status of the nodes and check for recent events on `Node` or other
resources:

```console
$ oc get nodes
$ oc describe node $NODE_NAME
$ oc get events --field-selector 'involvedObject.kind=Node'
$ oc get events
```

If you have SSH access to the nodes, use this access to review the logs for the
Kubelet:

```console
$ journalctl -b -f -u kubelet.service
```

## Mitigation

The mitigation for this alert depends on the issue causing the Kubelets to
become unresponsive. You can begin by checking for general networking issues or
for node-level configuration issues.

Commit message:

alerts/cluster-monitoring-operator/KubeletDown: Mention 'oc adm node-logs ...'
SSH is useful if the kubelet is too dead to serve logs.  But in some
cases like busted monitoring cert issues, the kubelet is up and the
KubeletDown alerts are purely monitoring-side [1]:

  $ oc adm node-logs --role=master -u kubelet | grep -i ' [IWE]1219' | grep -v 'I1219' | tail -n4
  Dec 19 23:59:55.095722 build0-gstfj-m-2.c.openshift-ci-build-farm.internal kubenswrapper[2629]: E1219 23:59:55.095660    2629 server.go:291] "Unable to authenticate the request due to an error" err="verifying certificate SN=..., SKID=, AKID=... failed: x509: certificate signed by unknown authority"
  Dec 19 23:59:55.280665 build0-gstfj-m-2.c.openshift-ci-build-farm.internal kubenswrapper[2629]: E1219 23:59:55.280603    2629 server.go:291] "Unable to authenticate the request due to an error" err="verifying certificate SN=..., SKID=, AKID=... failed: x509: certificate signed by unknown authority"
  Dec 19 23:59:55.911169 build0-gstfj-m-2.c.openshift-ci-build-farm.internal kubenswrapper[2629]: E1219 23:59:55.911104    2629 server.go:291] "Unable to authenticate the request due to an error" err="verifying certificate SN=..., SKID=, AKID=... failed: x509: certificate signed by unknown authority"
  Dec 19 23:59:59.291282 build0-gstfj-m-2.c.openshift-ci-build-farm.internal kubenswrapper[2629]: E1219 23:59:59.291211    2629 server.go:291] "Unable to authenticate the request due to an error" err="verifying certificate SN=..., SKID=, AKID=... failed: x509: certificate signed by unknown authority"

[1]: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-4521

alerts/cluster-monitoring-operator/KubeletDown.md, after:

# KubeletDown

## Meaning

The `KubeletDown` alert is triggered when the monitoring system has not been
able to reach any of the Kubelets in a cluster for more than 15 minutes.

## Impact

This alert represents a critical threat to the cluster's stability. Excluding
the possibility of a network issue preventing the monitoring system from
scraping Kubelet metrics, multiple nodes in the cluster are likely unable to
respond to configuration changes for pods and other resources, and some
debugging tools are likely not to be functional, such as `oc exec` and
`oc logs`.

## Diagnosis

Review the status of the nodes and check for recent events on `Node` or other
resources:

```console
$ oc get nodes
$ oc describe node $NODE_NAME
$ oc get events --field-selector 'involvedObject.kind=Node'
$ oc get events
```

You can [access cluster node journal logs][cluster-node-journal-logs] to review
the logs for the Kubelet.  If the Kubelet is functional, you can use:

```console
$ oc adm node-logs --role=master -u kubelet
```

See `oc adm node-logs --help` for alternative ways to select nodes and filter results.

If the kubelet is not functional and you have SSH access to the nodes,
use this access to review the logs for the Kubelet:

```console
$ journalctl -b -f -u kubelet.service
```

## Mitigation

The mitigation for this alert depends on the issue causing the Kubelets to
become unresponsive. You can begin by checking for general networking issues or
for node-level configuration issues.

[cluster-node-journal-logs]: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/support/gathering-cluster-data.html#querying-cluster-node-journal-logs_gathering-cluster-data
