alerts/cluster-monitoring-operator/NodeFileDescriptorLimit.md, before:

# NodeFileDescriptorLimit

## Meaning

This alert is triggered when a node's kernel is found to be running out of
available file descriptors -- a `warning` level alert at greater than 70% usage
and a `critical` level alert at greater than 90% usage.

## Impact

Applications on the node may no longer be able to open and operate on
files. This is likely to have severe consequences for anything scheduled on this
node.

## Diagnosis

You can open a shell on the node and use the standard Linux utilities to
diagnose the issue:

```console
$ NODE_NAME='<value of instance label from alert>'

$ oc debug "node/$NODE_NAME"
# sysctl -a | grep 'fs.file-'
fs.file-max = 1597016
fs.file-nr = 7104       0       1597016
# lsof -n
```

## Mitigation

Reduce the number of files opened simultaneously by either adjusting application
configuration or by moving some applications to other nodes.

To notify customer to mitigate the issue, send the following SL

https://github.com/openshift/managed-notifications/blob/master/osd/NodeFileDescriptorLimit_worker.json

Commit message:

SL is only for worker node. add note

alerts/cluster-monitoring-operator/NodeFileDescriptorLimit.md, after:

# NodeFileDescriptorLimit

## Meaning

This alert is triggered when a node's kernel is found to be running out of
available file descriptors -- a `warning` level alert at greater than 70% usage
and a `critical` level alert at greater than 90% usage.

## Impact

Applications on the node may no longer be able to open and operate on
files. This is likely to have severe consequences for anything scheduled on this
node.

## Diagnosis

You can open a shell on the node and use the standard Linux utilities to
diagnose the issue:

```console
$ NODE_NAME='<value of instance label from alert>'

$ oc debug "node/$NODE_NAME"
# sysctl -a | grep 'fs.file-'
fs.file-max = 1597016
fs.file-nr = 7104       0       1597016
# lsof -n
```

## Mitigation

Reduce the number of files opened simultaneously by either adjusting application
configuration or by moving some applications to other nodes.

If the node is a worker node, notify customer to mitigate the issue by sending the following SL

https://github.com/openshift/managed-notifications/blob/master/osd/NodeFileDescriptorLimit_worker.json
