alerts/openshift-container-storage-operator/PersistentVolumeUsageNearFull.md, before:

# PersistentVolumeUsageNearFull

## Meaning

Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) usage has exceeded 75% of its capacity,
indicating an imminent risk of reaching full capacity.

## Impact

**Severity:** Warning
**Potential Customer Impact:** High

This alert signifies that a PVC is nearing its full capacity, potentially
leading to data loss if not addressed promptly.

## Diagnosis

The alert triggers when a Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) approaches or surpasses
75% of its capacity. It indicates the need to expand the PVC size to accommodate
more data or to remove unnecessary data to free up space.

**Prerequisites:** [Prerequisites](helpers/diagnosis.md)

## Mitigation

### Recommended Actions

- **Expand the PVC Size:** Increase the capacity of the PVC to prevent data loss.
  ![Expand PVC Dropdown](helpers/screenshots/expand-pvc-dropdown.png)
  ![Expand PVC Dialog](helpers/screenshots/expand-pvc-dialog.png)
  
- **Delete Unnecessary Data:** Remove unnecessary data occupying space in the PVC.

Commit message:

Removing PV usage percentage numbers from runbooks doc text
As we are changing the alert percentages from newer ODF version
onwards, making the runbooks documentation texts general, thus
making runbooks not dependant on ODF versions.

Signed-off-by: Arun Kumar Mohan <amohan@redhat.com>

alerts/openshift-container-storage-operator/PersistentVolumeUsageNearFull.md, after:

# PersistentVolumeUsageNearFull

## Meaning

Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) usage is alarmingly very high,
indicating an imminent risk of reaching full capacity.
Please see the alert documentation text for an exact threshold limit.

## Impact

**Severity:** Warning
**Potential Customer Impact:** High

This alert signifies that a PVC is nearing its full capacity, potentially
leading to data loss if not addressed promptly.

## Diagnosis

The alert triggers when a Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) approaches or surpasses
very high capacity limit. It indicates the need to expand the PVC size to
accommodate more data or to remove unnecessary data to free up space.
Please see the alert documentation text for an exact threshold limit.

**Prerequisites:** [Prerequisites](helpers/diagnosis.md)

## Mitigation

### Recommended Actions

- **Expand the PVC Size:** Increase the capacity of the PVC to prevent data loss.
  ![Expand PVC Dropdown](helpers/screenshots/expand-pvc-dropdown.png)
  ![Expand PVC Dialog](helpers/screenshots/expand-pvc-dialog.png)
  
- **Delete Unnecessary Data:** Remove unnecessary data occupying space in the PVC.
