alerts/openshift-container-storage-operator/StorageAutoScalingFailed.md, before:

# StorageAutoScalingFailed

## Meaning

During automatic storage scaling, failures may occur due to various factors. In
such instances, the `StorageAutoScalingFailed` alert is fired.

## Impact

The storage cannot be scaled at the moment.

## Diagnosis

There are multiple stages where the storage configurations might not have matched
the requested storage parameters.

1. OSD pod is in `Pending` state:
    If it is in `Pending` state with the following logs, there is a high chance
    it is due to the exhaustion of the resources. Describe the pod in `Pending`
    state and check for the events.
    ```bash
    oc describe pod <osd_pod> -n <namespace>
    ```

    If the output is similar to the example below, it indicates that resources
    are exhausted:
    ```bash
    Warning  FailedScheduling  3m53s  default-scheduler  0/6 nodes are available: 1 Insufficient cpu, 2 node(s) didn't match Pod's node affinity/selector, 3 node(s) had untolerated taint {node-role.kubernetes.io/master: }. preemption: 0/6 nodes are available: 1 Insufficient cpu, 5 Preemption is not helpful for scheduling.
    ```

    If there are no errors, retrieve the pvc of the pod in `Pending` state.
    ```bash
    pvcName=$(oc get pod <osd_pod> -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.volumes[*].persistentVolumeClaim.claimName}')
    oc get pvc $pvcName -n <namespace> -o yaml
    ```
    Check for the health and events of the PVC for detailed information.

2. PVC is in `Pending` state:

    ```bash
    oc get pvc <pvc_name> -n <namespace> -o yaml
    ```

    Inspect the events of the pvc. Additionally, retrieve the pv of the pvc if
    it is still in `pending` state.
    ```bash
    oc get pvc <pvc_name> -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.volumeName}'
    ```

3. PV is in `Pending` state:
    ```bash
    oc get pv <pv_name> -n <namespace> -o yaml
    ```
    If the pv is in `Pending` state, there might be a storage issue. Check the
    events of the pv for more information.

## Mitigation

1. If resources are depleted and pods start failing, allocate additional
resources to the storage cluster. Possible solutions include adding more nodes
or scaling up CPU and memory on existing nodes.
- For instructions on adding nodes, please refer to this document: [Adding a node](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_data_foundation/latest/html-single/scaling_storage/index#adding_a_node)

2. Check upon the Ceph Storage: In case the OSDs are `down` or `out`, restart them
and try again.

3. During vertical scaling, if the pv takes time to resize, then the osds would not
resize correctly. In this case, the osd pods can be restarted.

4. Additionally, one could try to restart the rook operator if it is stuck reconciling:
    ```bash
    oc rollout restart deployment rook-ceph-operator -n <namespace>
    ```

    After restarting, look for errors or warnings in the logs of rook-ceph-operator:
    ```bash
    oc logs -l app=rook-ceph-operator -n <namespace>
    ```
    Monitor the status of the pods and cephcluster post restart.

Commit message:

add mitigation guide for resizing error in StorageAutoScalingFailed alert
For aws alert when resizing is triggered twice within 6 hours.

Signed-off-by: ShravaniVangur <shravanivangur@gmail.com>

alerts/openshift-container-storage-operator/StorageAutoScalingFailed.md, after:

# StorageAutoScalingFailed

## Meaning

During automatic storage scaling, failures may occur due to various factors. In
such instances, the `StorageAutoScalingFailed` alert is fired.

## Impact

The storage cannot be scaled at the moment.

## Diagnosis

There are multiple stages where the storage configurations might not have matched
the requested storage parameters.

1. OSD pod is in `Pending` state:
    If it is in `Pending` state with the following logs, there is a high chance
    it is due to the exhaustion of the resources. Describe the pod in `Pending`
    state and check for the events.
    ```bash
    oc describe pod <osd_pod> -n <namespace>
    ```

    If the output is similar to the example below, it indicates that resources
    are exhausted:
    ```bash
    Warning  FailedScheduling  3m53s  default-scheduler  0/6 nodes are available: 1 Insufficient cpu, 2 node(s) didn't match Pod's node affinity/selector, 3 node(s) had untolerated taint {node-role.kubernetes.io/master: }. preemption: 0/6 nodes are available: 1 Insufficient cpu, 5 Preemption is not helpful for scheduling.
    ```

    If there are no errors, retrieve the pvc of the pod in `Pending` state.
    ```bash
    pvcName=$(oc get pod <osd_pod> -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.volumes[*].persistentVolumeClaim.claimName}')
    oc get pvc $pvcName -n <namespace> -o yaml
    ```
    Check for the health and events of the PVC for detailed information.

2. PVC is in `Pending` state:

    ```bash
    oc get pvc <pvc_name> -n <namespace> -o yaml
    ```

    Inspect the events of the pvc. Additionally, retrieve the pv of the pvc if
    it is still in `pending` state.
    ```bash
    oc get pvc <pvc_name> -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.volumeName}'
    ```

3. PV is in `Pending` state:
    ```bash
    oc get pv <pv_name> -n <namespace> -o yaml
    ```
    If the pv is in `Pending` state, there might be a storage issue. Check the
    events of the pv for more information.

4. The Pod, PVC and PV are behaving as expected but the resize has not happened yet:
    One of the primary reasons for this error is attempting to resize resources
    more than once within a 6-hour period, particularly in AWS clusters. AWS
    enforces a restriction that allows only one resize operation within this
    window, and any additional attempts will result in error messages appearing
    in the PVC event logs.
    ```bash
    pvcName=$(oc get pod <osd_pod> -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.volumes[*].persistentVolumeClaim.claimName}')
    oc describe pvc $pvcName -n <namespace> -o yaml
    ```

    The events will be something similar to the following:
    ```bash
    Warning  VolumeResizeFailed      13m                    external-resizer ebs.csi.aws.com  resize volume "<pvc_name>" by resizer "ebs.csi.aws.com" failed: rpc error: code = Internal desc = Could not resize volume "<volume_name>": rpc error: code = Internal desc = Could not modify volume "<volume_name>": operation error EC2: ModifyVolume, https response error StatusCode: 400, RequestID: 3cc60db2-8d04-4c29-9d03-dd80cc32fd81, api error VolumeModificationRateExceeded: You've reached the maximum modification rate per volume limit. Wait at least 6 hours between modifications per EBS volume.
    ```

## Mitigation

1. If resources are depleted and pods start failing, allocate additional
resources to the storage cluster. Possible solutions include adding more nodes
or scaling up CPU and memory on existing nodes.
- For instructions on adding nodes, please refer to this document: [Adding a node](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_data_foundation/latest/html-single/scaling_storage/index#adding_a_node)

2. Check upon the Ceph Storage: In case the OSDs are `down` or `out`, restart them
and try again.

3. During vertical scaling, if the pv takes time to resize, then the osds would not
resize correctly. In this case, the osd pods can be restarted.

4. Additionally, one could try to restart the rook operator if it is stuck reconciling:
    ```bash
    oc rollout restart deployment rook-ceph-operator -n <namespace>
    ```

    After restarting, look for errors or warnings in the logs of rook-ceph-operator:
    ```bash
    oc logs -l app=rook-ceph-operator -n <namespace>
    ```
    Monitor the status of the pods and cephcluster post restart.
