alerts/cluster-network-operator/NoRunningOvnMaster.md, before:

# NoRunningOvnMaster

## Meaning

This [alert][NoRunningOvnMaster] is triggered when there are no
OVN-Kubernetes master control plane pods
[Running][PodRunning]
This is a critical-level alert if no OVN-Kubernetes master control plane pods
are not running for `10m`.

## Impact
Networking control plane is not functional. Networking configuration updates
will not be applied to the cluster.
Without a functional networking control plane, existing workloads may continue
to be partially functional,
but new workloads will not be functional.
Updates required for functioning Kubernetes services will not be performed.

## Diagnosis
### Cluster network operator
Cluster Network operator (CNO) manages the CRUD operations for OVN-Kubernetes
daemonset.
Verify the CNO is running:

    oc -n openshift-network-operator get pods -l name=network-operator

Verify the [CNO](https://github.com/openshift/cluster-network-operator/) is
functioning without error by checking the operator Status:

    oc get co network

If the network is degraded, you can see the full error message by describing the
object. Pay attention to any error message reported by Status Conditions of type
Degraded:

    oc describe co network

Check the CNO logs for when it is reconciling the daemonset for ovnkube-master.

    oc logs deployment/network-operator -n openshift-network-operator

A successful reconcile for this daemonset looks like this in the CNO logs:

    I0228 14:48:30.941130       1 log.go:184] reconciling (apps/v1, Kind=DaemonSet)
                                openshift-ovn-kubernetes/ovnkube-master
    I0228 14:48:30.960944       1 log.go:184] update was successful

### OVN-Kubernetes master pod
Verify the _DESIRED_ number of daemonsets is equal to the number of Kubernetes
control plane nodes:

    oc get ds -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes ovnkube-master
    oc get nodes -l node-role.kubernetes.io/master="" -o name | wc -l

If _READY_ count from the daemonset `ovnkube-master` is not equal to
_DESIRED_ then understand which container is failing in the OVN-Kubernetes
master pod by describing one of the failing pods with `oc describe pod ...`.
After understanding which container is not starting successfully, gather the
runtime logs from that container.
You may need to use `--previous` command with `oc logs` command to get the
logs of the previous execution run of a container.

Pay close attention to any log output starting with "E" for Error:

    oc -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes logs $OVNKUBE-MASTER-POD-NAME
    --all-containers=true | grep "^E"

## Mitigation

The appropriate mitigation will be very different depending on the cause of the
error discovered in the diagnosis.
Investigate the issue using the steps outlined in diagnosis and contact the
incident response team in your organisation if fixing the issue is not apparent.

[NoRunningOvnMaster]: https://github.com/openshift/cluster-network-operator/blob/master/bindata/network/ovn-kubernetes/alert-rules-control-plane.yaml
[PodRunning]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#pod-phase

Commit message:

OVN-K: Add control plane issue diagnosis
Signed-off-by: Martin Kennelly <mkennell@redhat.com>

alerts/cluster-network-operator/NoRunningOvnMaster.md, after:

# NoRunningOvnMaster

## Meaning

This [alert][NoRunningOvnMaster] is triggered when there are no
OVN-Kubernetes master control plane pods
[Running][PodRunning]
This is a critical-level alert if no OVN-Kubernetes master control plane pods
are not running for `10m`.

## Impact
Networking control plane is not functional. Networking configuration updates
will not be applied to the cluster.
Without a functional networking control plane, existing workloads may continue
to be partially functional,
but new workloads will not be functional.
Updates required for functioning Kubernetes services will not be performed.

## Diagnosis
### Control plane issue

This can occur multiple control plane nodes are powered off or are unable to
connect each other via the network. Check that all control plane nodes are
powered and that network connections between each machine are functional.

    oc get node -l node-role.kubernetes.io/master=""

### Cluster network operator
Cluster Network operator (CNO) manages the CRUD operations for OVN-Kubernetes
daemonset.
Verify the CNO is running:

    oc -n openshift-network-operator get pods -l name=network-operator

Verify the [CNO](https://github.com/openshift/cluster-network-operator/) is
functioning without error by checking the operator Status:

    oc get co network

If the network is degraded, you can see the full error message by describing the
object. Pay attention to any error message reported by Status Conditions of type
Degraded:

    oc describe co network

Check the CNO logs for when it is reconciling the daemonset for ovnkube-master.

    oc logs deployment/network-operator -n openshift-network-operator

A successful reconcile for this daemonset looks like this in the CNO logs:

    I0228 14:48:30.941130       1 log.go:184] reconciling (apps/v1, Kind=DaemonSet)
                                openshift-ovn-kubernetes/ovnkube-master
    I0228 14:48:30.960944       1 log.go:184] update was successful

### OVN-Kubernetes master pod
Verify the _DESIRED_ number of daemonsets is equal to the number of Kubernetes
control plane nodes:

    oc get ds -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes ovnkube-master
    oc get nodes -l node-role.kubernetes.io/master="" -o name | wc -l

If _READY_ count from the daemonset `ovnkube-master` is not equal to
_DESIRED_ then understand which container is failing in the OVN-Kubernetes
master pod by describing one of the failing pods with `oc describe pod ...`.
After understanding which container is not starting successfully, gather the
runtime logs from that container.
You may need to use `--previous` command with `oc logs` command to get the
logs of the previous execution run of a container.

Pay close attention to any log output starting with "E" for Error:

    oc -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes logs $OVNKUBE-MASTER-POD-NAME
    --all-containers=true | grep "^E"

## Mitigation

The appropriate mitigation will be very different depending on the cause of the
error discovered in the diagnosis.
Investigate the issue using the steps outlined in diagnosis and contact the
incident response team in your organisation if fixing the issue is not apparent.

[NoRunningOvnMaster]: https://github.com/openshift/cluster-network-operator/blob/master/bindata/network/ovn-kubernetes/alert-rules-control-plane.yaml
[PodRunning]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#pod-phase
